when the car company chooses to launch a
new vehicle in the famed Monterey
Peninsula of California it's for one of
two reasons
either they have a ultra luxury vehicle
like a rolls-royce or an ultra
performance vehicle like the Corvette c7
in the case of this Alfa Romeo 2016
model 4c spider it's both alpha male
wants to position itself as a premium
luxury brand in America more to follow
on that but there's no mistaking their
DNA when it comes to racing they started
making cars back in 1910 and that very
next year they won their first race and
since then they've won over a dozen
world championships so it's safe to say
that racing is an alpha males DNA and
that's why we're here at mazda Raceway
Laguna Seca and we're gonna take this
car on that famed corkscrew
well some days are obviously better than
others but you get to spend your day the
Monterey Peninsula at the famed
mazda Raceway Laguna Seca driving an
Alfa Romeo 4c spider to freedom good day
powering the mid-engine 4c spider is a
1.75 liter all aluminum engine it's
turbocharged it's a four-cylinder and
produces 237 horsepower and 258
pound-feet of torque 0 to 60 times on
the 4c spider our 4.1 seconds top speed
1.1 G's but the engine is just one part
of the story the other part of the story
is that you have a carbon-fiber
monocoque sitting on an aluminum
subframe what does that mean less than
2,500 pounds for this vehicle now when
you look at some of these features such
as the carbon fiber monocoque you have
to go up into two or three hundred
thousand dollar sports car price range
to get that kind of technology and it
also looks cool because when you open
the door you could see all the exposed
carbon fiber let's take a quick look
inside the 4c spider
as you can see leather is standard on
this model unlike the coupe but what I
really want you to see is all this
carbon fiber this is actually the
monocoque the tub as they call it and
it's completely exposed and that's by
design
they want you to see exactly what's
under here now carbon fiber is great
because it's extremely strong and
extremely light in addition to the
carbon fiber monocoque you also have a
carbon fiber windshield surround you
also have a carbon fiber halo in the
rear so a lot of carbon fiber again to
lighten up the vehicle powering the 4c
spider is a six-speed dual-clutch
transmission that shifts extremely fast
you also have this DNA switch so as you
can see here D and an a D is for dynamic
and is for what they call natural and a
is for all-weather and you also have a
track bode racing heritage offer mail as
real
come to play with this bar is the
serious track on
this thing cries on Rails
over the years the Alfa Romeo logo has
evolved but what has not changed is the
brand's commitment to performance and to
racing they've been gone from this
country for quite some time by the came
back last year with the coupe version of
this vehicle and shortly after the
Spyder we expect to see a sedan that's
gonna compete with the 3-series so if
you don't want to be just another three
series of c-class at the light you may
want to look at them you want to look at
alpha as a brand in general so what's
the bottom line on the 4c spider well
let me start by telling you that they've
pretty much sold every single one they
made very limited production run and
those early adopters are people that
have owned alphas in the past or maybe
they belong to the Alpha Club so once
you get past those they're trying to get
to a little more of the regular America
and I think they're gonna do it
so at sixty $3,900 that sounds like a
lot of monies but you can compare it to
a Boxster for example but consider it's
and mil consider the carbon-fiber
monocoque consider all the racing DNA
this is truly a statement vehicle when I
was driving in front of this today and
saw it in my rear view mirror I just had
a big smile on my face this car just
oozes with passion and enthusiasm and I
love that I'm glad someone is still
making those kind of cars